# RESTful API Node Server
RESTful API built with Node.js, Express, and Mongoose.

## Quick Start
To set up the project, you have the option to deploy it either locally or using Docker.

If you opt for a local deployment, a running instance of MongoDB is mandatory.

The quickest way to get the project running is by using Docker commands. Executing npm run docker:dev and docker:test will initiate a MongoDB instance and the application itself, with all configurations linked properly.

Should the request return certificate validation errors, it's advised to disable validation on the particular request.

Upon running the application for the first time, a migration will occur creating an admin user which can be utilized within the application.

```bash

name: admin
password: 01admin*

```

If you're planning to run the project using Docker, it's important to delete the './data' folder before initiating the command. This can be done using the 'sudo' command for elevated permissions. Here's how you can do it:

```bash

sudo rm -r ./data

```

## Table of Contents

- [Commands](#commands)
- [Configuration](#configuration)
- [Project Structure](#project-structure)
- [API Documentation](#api-documentation)
- [Error Handling](#error-handling)
- [Validation](#validation)
- [Authentication](#authentication)
- [Authorization](#authorization)
- [Logging](#logging)
- [Mongoose Plugins](#mongoose-plugins)
- [Linting](#linting)

## Commands

Running locally:

```bash
npm run start
```

Docker:

```bash
npm run docker:dev
```

Linting:

```bash
npm run lint
```

## Configuration

Configuration is done using [config](https://github.com/node-config/node-config#readme).
The configuration variables can be found and modified in the `/config/default.yml` file. They come with these default values:

```bash
database:
  url: mongodb://mongodb:27017/revel
  databaseName: revel

jwt:
  secret: "12345"
  accessExpirationMinutes: 30
  refreshExpirationDays: 20

admin:
  password: 01admin*

env: development
port: 3000
```
The default file configure the project to use docker with
 
```
  npm run docker:dev
```
The test file configure the project to run the tests in docker with

- database: Mongodb configuration. 
- jwt: JWT configuration.
- admin: Admin user configuration. Used to populate the admin user.
- env: Environment. If you use development you enable development logs
- port: Port where the server listen


## Project Structure

```
config\             # configuration files
src\
 |--certs\          # ssl certificates
 |--constants       # Constants files
 |--controllers\    # Route controllers (controller layer)
 |--database\       # Mongodb (data layer)
  |--models         # Mongoose models
  |--plugins        # Mongoose plugins
 |--docs\           # Swagger files
 |--middlewares\    # Express middlewares and middleware configs
 |--routes\v1       # Routes
 |--services\       # Business logic (service layer)
 |--utils\          # Utility classes and functions
 |--validations\    # Request data validation schemas
 |--app.js          # Express app
 |--index.js        # App entry point
```

## API Documentation

To view the list of available APIs and their specifications, run the server and go to `https://localhost:3000/v1/docs` in your browser. This documentation page is automatically generated using the [swagger](https://swagger.io/) definitions written as comments in the route files.

### API Endpoints

List of available routes:

**Auth routes**:\
`POST /v1/auth/register` - register\
`POST /v1/auth/login` - login\
`POST /v1/auth/logout` - logout\
`POST /v1/auth/refresh-tokens` - refresh auth tokens\

**User routes**:\
`POST /v1/users` - create a user\
`GET /v1/users` - get all users\
`GET /v1/users/:userId` - get user\
`PATCH /v1/users/:userId` - update user\
`DELETE /v1/users/:userId` - delete user\
`GET /v1/users/:userId/movies` - get user movies\

**Movie routes**:\
`POST /v1/movie` - create a movie\
`GET /v1/movie` - get all movies\
`GET /v1/movie/:movieId` - get movie\
`PATCH /v1/movie/:movieId` - update movie\
`DELETE /v1/movie/:movieId` - delete movie\

## Error Handling

The app has a centralized error handling mechanism.

## Validation

Request data is validated using [Joi](https://joi.dev/).

The validation schemas are defined in the `src/validations` directory and are used in the routes by providing them as parameters to the `validate` middleware.


## Authentication

Authenticated routes use the `auth` middleware.

These routes require a valid JWT access token in the Authorization request header using the Bearer schema. If the request does not contain a valid access token, an Unauthorized (401) error is thrown.

**Generating Access Tokens**:

An access token can be generated by making a successful call to the register (`POST /v1/auth/register`) or login (`POST /v1/auth/login`) endpoints. The response of these endpoints also contains refresh tokens.

**Refreshing Access Tokens**:

After the access token expires, a new access token can be generated, by making a call to the refresh token endpoint (`POST /v1/auth/refresh-tokens`) and sending along a valid refresh token in the request body. This call returns a new access token and a new refresh token.

## Authorization

The `auth` middleware provide rights/permissions to access a route.

The permissions are role-based. You can view the permissions/rights of each role in the `src/constants/roles.js` file.

If the user making the request does not have the required permissions to access this route, a Forbidden (403) error is thrown.

## Logging

Import the logger from `utils/logger.js`. It is using the [Winston](https://github.com/winstonjs/winston) logging library.

Logging should be done according to the following severity levels:

## Mongoose Plugins

The app contains 2 custom mongoose plugins. You can find the plugins in `src/database/plugins`.

### toJSON

The toJSON plugin applies the following changes in the toJSON transform call:

- removes \_\_v, createdAt, updatedAt, and any schema path that has private: true
- replaces \_id with id

### paginate

The paginate plugin adds the `paginate` static method to the mongoose schema.

The plugin also supports sorting by multiple criteria (separated by a comma): `sortBy: name:desc,role:asc`

## Linting

Linting is done using [ESLint](https://eslint.org/).

ESLint is configured to follow the [Airbnb JavaScript style guide](https://github.com/airbnb/javascript/tree/master/packages/eslint-config-airbnb-base).


